hwk6_aar2192.md, before:

hwk6\_aar2192
================
Amadeia Rector
11/20/2018

Problem 1
=========

This problem uses the dataset on homicides given by the Washington Post.

### Part a

Create a city\_state variable (e.g. “Baltimore, MD”), and a binary variable indicating whether the homicide is solved. Omit cities Dallas, TX; Phoenix, AZ; and Kansas City, MO – these don’t report victim race. Also omit Tulsa, AL – this is a data entry mistake. Modifiy victim\_race to have categories white and non-white, with white as the reference category. Be sure that victim\_age is numeric.

``` r
homicide_df = 
  read_csv("data/homicide-data.csv", na = c("", "NA", "Unknown")) %>%
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, state, sep = ", "),
    resolution = case_when(
      disposition == "Closed without arrest" ~ "unsolved",
      disposition == "Open/No arrest"        ~ "unsolved",
      disposition == "Closed by arrest"      ~ "solved"
    )
  ) %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Tulsa, AL") %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Dallas, TX") %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Phoenix, AZ") %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Kansas City, MO") %>% 
  filter(victim_race != is.na(victim_race)) %>% 
  mutate(victim_race = ifelse(victim_race %in% "White", "white", "non-white"),
         victim_race = fct_relevel(victim_race, "white"),
         victim_age = as.numeric(victim_age))
## Parsed with column specification:
## cols(
##   uid = col_character(),
##   reported_date = col_integer(),
##   victim_last = col_character(),
##   victim_first = col_character(),
##   victim_race = col_character(),
##   victim_age = col_integer(),
##   victim_sex = col_character(),
##   city = col_character(),
##   state = col_character(),
##   lat = col_double(),
##   lon = col_double(),
##   disposition = col_character()
## )
```

Commit message:

did logistic regression on just baltimore data for resolved cases...

hwk6_aar2192.md, after:

hwk6\_aar2192
================
Amadeia Rector
11/20/2018

Problem 1
=========

This problem uses the dataset on homicides given by the Washington Post.

### Part a

Create a city\_state variable (e.g. “Baltimore, MD”), and a binary variable indicating whether the homicide is solved. Omit cities Dallas, TX; Phoenix, AZ; and Kansas City, MO – these don’t report victim race. Also omit Tulsa, AL – this is a data entry mistake. Modifiy victim\_race to have categories white and non-white, with white as the reference category. Be sure that victim\_age is numeric.

``` r
homicide_df = 
  read_csv("data/homicide-data.csv", na = c("", "NA", "Unknown")) %>%
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, state, sep = ", "),
    resolution = case_when(
      disposition == "Closed without arrest" ~ "unresolved",
      disposition == "Open/No arrest"        ~ "unresolved",
      disposition == "Closed by arrest"      ~ "resolved"
    )
  ) %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Tulsa, AL") %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Dallas, TX") %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Phoenix, AZ") %>% 
  filter(city_state != "Kansas City, MO") %>% 
  filter(victim_race != is.na(victim_race)) %>% 
  mutate(victim_race = ifelse(victim_race %in% "White", "white", "non-white"),
         victim_race = fct_relevel(victim_race, "white"),
         victim_age = as.numeric(victim_age))
## Parsed with column specification:
## cols(
##   uid = col_character(),
##   reported_date = col_integer(),
##   victim_last = col_character(),
##   victim_first = col_character(),
##   victim_race = col_character(),
##   victim_age = col_integer(),
##   victim_sex = col_character(),
##   city = col_character(),
##   state = col_character(),
##   lat = col_double(),
##   lon = col_double(),
##   disposition = col_character()
## )
```

### Part b

For the city of Baltimore, MD, use the glm function to fit a logistic regression with resolved vs unresolved as the outcome and victim age, sex and race (as just defined) as predictors. Save the output of glm as an R object; apply the broom::tidy to this object; and obtain the estimate and confidence interval of the adjusted odds ratio for solving homicides comparing non-white victims to white victims keeping all other variables fixed.

``` r
fit_logistic_balt =
  homicide_df %>% 
  mutate(resolved = as.numeric(resolution == "resolved")) %>% 
  filter(city == "Baltimore") %>% 
  glm(resolved ~ victim_age + victim_race + victim_sex, data = ., family = binomial())
```
